Commerce Dynamics Technical Challenge

The first step that I took when building this website was to extract all of the images from the PNG file that I was provided with.  I used GIMP and cropped and exported each of the different card images that I needed for building the website.  I cropped each image to be the same size to ensure that they all looked uniform on the site.  Uniformity makes a website more polished and professional.

The second step that I took was to look over the PSD file to determine layout and how things are grouped together.  I always find that if I do not take this step before beginning to actually code, I end up having to backtrack a lot because I do not have a clear vision of how everything will fit together.  Dividing the body of the document into different sections and div elements is essential to the layout and functionality of the site.

I was not sure about the exact font that was used and using different design extraction tools did not provide this information.  I used Google Fonts to find one that most closely resembled the font used.  I knew that the font-used in the PSD was a sans-serif style font, so I made sure to choose the same style.

Let’s begin with the header of the page! I noticed that in the PSD, the navigation bar was not symmetrical on one side, so when building the site I chose to make it symmetrical.  I was not sure if this was a styling error or intentional, but I made the decision to have a uniform navigation bar because it looks cleaner.  For responsive design, I chose to use a ‘hamburger menu’ for the navigation links.  Without a hamburger menu, the links are too close together and it does not look like there is sufficient spacing between each navigation item.  The hamburger menu was built using a bit of JavaScript and also some CSS animations!

The next section is the form for searching for vehicles.  The form was relatively straightforward aside from removing the default drop-down menu arrows and replacing them with an arrow image based on the PSD.  If this was a real form, there would be different option elements included in the HTML for the user to choose from in the drop-down menu.

Once the search criteria have been filled out, vehicle results display on the page.  In the PSD, there are three specific icons used to denote the date, speed, and the power of the vehicle.  I think that when icons are used, they look best and most cohesive when they come from the same package or website.  I was not able to find icons from the same package to identically match those used in the PSD.  In a real world project, designers would likely be providing these to the developers or the company would have a paid account to have access to a larger quantity of icons.  I chose to use icons from Font Awesome that represented the different pieces of car information for each vehicle.  I could have cropped the icons from the PNG file, but I thought it was best to demonstrate my working knowledge of how to find, use, and style icons! Initially, the vehicle results are displayed in rows of 3.  Once the device being used becomes smaller, the results are displayed in rows of 2 and then on mobile devices only one vehicle will be displayed in each row.

On mobile, the header image is not quite large enough.  I was not able to make it any bigger without distorting the text and making it difficult to read.  In production, I think that assets/images would be provided separately from the text, so this would not be an issue for an actual project.  I tried to make the header image as large as I could without affecting the quality of the image.  Most sections on mobile have been laid out using columns as opposed to rows.  I always feels that putting larger blocks of content individually in a column make it easier to experience on a mobile device.  

As I mentioned during the interview, I do not have much experience with SEO when building a website.  For this technical challenge, I did some research and found a few simple things I could do to help optimize the site for search engines.  I added some meta tags to the head of the HTML document for SEO purposes.

In total, between planning, researching, coding, and debugging, I spent about 15 hours on this technical challenge.
